# Ari's Capstone Project

## Overview

The entire site is coded in 3 languages total. Aside from this document, which is purely text and will be used as an aide in my presentation, all the code is contained on 2 files, the main.html file and the index.js file. 3 programming languages were used in coding this; HTML, Javascript, and a form of CSS called Bootstrap. The link to the site is arimenezes11.github.io and will work on all size of computer monitor, but will look weird on tablets and phones. When developing/testing the site, I used Flask, a python module that allows you to run a webserver, to run a test server on my local network. This is not used in the final product, because the sever only runs on my local network unless I buy a domain and host it there. Instead I used github pages to host the site. The python code for the site is included in the Github repository, with the file name app.py. 

## The Code
### HTML
The html code, all of which is in the aforementioned main.html file, is what displays all the elements of the website, from the navigation bar which I ended up including and not needing to the form which allows the user to select what graph to show. Of all the elements on the website, the only ones that are hardcoded (directly written into the html and will never change) are the  paragraph to the right of the graph and the graph selection options. The graph is rendered through a javascript API module called Apexcharts.js and the tables contents are filled with data from the dataset given to the graph. 

### CSS/Bootstrap 4
The CSS is what makes the website not look like something from the turn of the century. The official term is "styling" - specifiying the properties of the html elements. It can be put into a separate file, but I have it in the same main.html. To do the CSS for this site, I used Bootstrap, which provides preconfigured CSS classes, making it quicker to write. I don't have any real experience using base/true CSS, because its tedious and only better if one is experienced and needs minute customizations. Most web developers use Bootstrap, because in addition to styling it enforces a grid system on the page, allowing me to organize the page in a relativly simple manner. The CSS for some parts ended up being quite tricky, especially regarding the table and form selection, but it is overall the smallest part of the website both in terms of code and hours spent. 

### Javascript
Now this is the bulk of the website; and everything that the user does on the site is through my javascript code. There are 3 main sections to it, and if there is time in the presentation I would love to go through it and show you the code, since I think its cool and want to brag a little bit (my sister didnt care and thought it was boring) (im not mad i swear). All the code is modularized, it executes one function to render the base graph when the page loads, and after that everything is user-triggered with no overlap.\
**The graph** - As mentioned previously, the rendering of the graph itself was done through an API module called Apexcharts.js. A javascript module (aka packet or library) is basically like an add-on to normal javascript, allowing the developer to do something that the basic language cant naturally do. Kind of like downloading Adblock on Chrome. Using the new classes and methods provided by this, I could create a graph with a given set of customizaation options and pass it a set of data in a given format. \
**The form** - The code for the form was overall the most tricky part. There are some external reasons that made the background code difficult, but from just a code perspective there were a couple key problems I had to tackle. Firstly, the page could *not* reload when the user submitted the form. If it did, the users selections would be wiped out b/c it would be reset, and the graph would reset to blank (no dataset). Secondly, the actual interfacing between my javascript and the html submissions was tricky because it was something I was totally unfamiliar with. I havent programmed in javascript since I learnt it back in middle school, since I have never really needed it for something I couldnt do with python; a language I've used far more and am more familiar/comfortable with. Learning how to interface the html selections required reading through some documentation and numerous google searches as I tried to bugfix. In the end, I figured both problems out after probably 5ish hours, about a third of my dev time. \
**The table** - Sending the same dataset that went to the graph to a table was the section I thought would be the easiest. The chart was easier. I did this one after the form, so I came armed with my renewed familiarity and some newfound knowledge. The difficulty here came in the form of *dynamically* creating the table, instead of it being static. In programming, static is something that is set, and often is hardcoded. Dynamic refers to something that is generated by the code, often because it is used multiple times with its inputs changing each time. Because the user gives their own starting value, the table had to be dynamic. I was able to create a function to connect to the table element pretty fast, but the object manipulation needed to dynamically create a table and then remove it before replacing it with a new one required some more reading and lots and lots of bugfixing. In the end I prevailed, and rewarded myself by petting my dog. 
